---
title: "Apply for the Global Theological Institute"
image: /assets/images/GETI-cover.jpg
tags:
  - religion
  - humanities
  - theology
---
Apply for global theological institute: "Where now for visible unity?"
======================================================================

Applications are open for the Global Ecumenical Theological Institute 2025, being held in Wadi el Natrun, near Alexandria, Egypt, 12-29 October 2025. 

**The application deadline is 15 October 2024.**

The Global Ecumenical Theological Institute will be open to 100 students, who will gather during the Sixth World Conference on Faith and Order for a blended learning experience consisting of a four-week phase of e-learning 15 September-12 October 2025, before the residential phase. 

Students will have an opportunity to theologically and contextually reflect together on the chosen thematic areas that encompass many of today's pressing issues, under a selected theme that will mirror the Conference one, "Where now for Visible Unity?"

The Global Ecumenical Theological Institute has become a flagship activity of World Council of Churches' (WCC) Ecumenical Theological Education programme. 

For Rev. Dr Kuzipa Nalwamba, WCC programme director for Unity, Mission, and Ecumenical Formation, "GETI 2025 is strategic for contributing to nurturing an ethos of continual learning in theologically accountable, and contextually relevant ways."

"Young and emerging ecumenical theologians are central to keeping the ecumenical vision alive as the ecumenical family continues on the Pilgrimage of Justice, Reconciliation, and Unity," she said.

GETI 2025 will bring together young and emerging ecumenical theologians and educators from a broad spectrum of Christian traditions and all eight regions of the WCC to engage with one another on current critical theological and ecumenical themes.

Participants are between 21 and 35 years old, and will engage with the conference theme and one another. 

"The WCC is committed to select a balanced group of participants in terms of denomination, gender, and geography, as much as possible," added Nalwamba.

Among its objectives, GETI 2025 aims to enable participants to engage with past, present, and future issues in ecumenical discourse; utilize interdisciplinary approaches for ecumenical studies; and seek constructive solutions for challenges in changing religious and societal landscapes.

Participants  will thus be immersed in ecumenical leadership training, theological learning, mutual dialogue, and intergenerational dialogue with leaders of the ecumenical movement. 

They will also explore theological underpinnings of what it means to continue on the ecumenical journey towards visible unity and what it means to confess the Nicene creed against the backdrop of today's world.  

[More information, admission criteria and application form](https://oikoumene.org/what-we-do/ecumenical-theological-education-ete#global-ecumenical-theological-institute)