---
title: "UCR Conference on Queer and Trans Studies in Religion"
image: /assets/images/relcfp-cover.jpg
tags:
  - religion
  - humanities
  - history
paginate: true   
---
UCR Conference on Queer and Trans Studies in Religion
-----------------------------------------------------

*Queering the Academic Conference since 2019*

### UCR-QTSR VII -- February 14-16, 2025

##### Theme: Worldmaking

* * * * *

### Call for Proposals

The program committee of the UCR Conference on Queer and Trans Studies in Religion welcomes proposals for the seventh annual conference, to be held February 14-16, 2025. The conference will be hybrid; sessions will be held in-person at the University of California, Riverside largely during standard business hours Pacific time, and will also be open to both audience members and presenters over Zoom.

This year, we are especially interested in proposals addressing the theme of worldmaking in connection with trans and queer studies in religion. However, we also welcome proposals on all topics relevant to trans and queer studies in religion. In addition, following our tradition, we invite all who are interested in taking part to co-create the conference with us. What do you need from this conference? What would you like to have included? We welcome creative proposals, including performances and exhibits; proposals for workshops and informal discussion spaces; proposals for work-in-progress sessions; conventional paper and panel presentations; and any other possibility you can dream up.

Please submit your proposal to <UCRQTSR@ucr.edu>. To receive full consideration, your proposal must include each of the following, submitted as a Word or PDF attachment or file-sharing link:

-   Your name and email address
-   The name(s) and email addresses of any co-presenters
-   For full session proposals, the name of the person leading the session (or, if you want to have a certain session available but can't or don't want to lead it, please indicate that)
-   If applicable, the title of your proposed session, paper, or activity
-   A detailed description of your proposed session, paper, or activity in approximately 300 words; for proposed papers or presentations please summarize your argument and key sources as part of this description. Please also ensure that your description makes clear how your proposed presentation or session engages the study of religion and how it engages queer and/or trans studies.
-   Any space and/or tech requirements for your proposal (so that we can confirm they're possible in our available spaces.

Only proposals containing all of the above information in the same document will receive full consideration. The deadline for proposals is **September 13, 2024**. Any questions about the conference can be sent to <melissa.wilcox@ucr.edu>.