---
title: "CFP: Ways of Knowing: A ERAH Graduate Student Conference"
image: /assets/images/relcfp-cover.jpg
tags:
  - religion
  - humanities
  - history
  - english
---
The graduate students of English, Religious Studies, Anthropology, and History Departments have come together to create the inaugural ERAH Graduate Conference, to be held on Southern Methodist University's campus on October 26-27, 2024. This conference will prioritize the development of interdisciplinary connections and the fostering of an environment not only friendly to junior graduate students and upper-level undergraduates, but actively tailored to those with little to no conference experience and with opportunities for regional networking and skill-building.\
The conference theme for Fall 2024 is Ways of Knowing. Recent scholarship across the humanities (and permeating the social sciences and other fields) has engaged with the necessary questions that accompany an increasingly diverse and postcolonial global environment: how do we look outside of the constraints of a Eurocentric, Enlightenment-forged worldview to understand and appreciate the many sources of knowledge and various ways of understanding the world that exist in its various communities? How do we know things, and how do we navigate the tension between universal and local truths? The conference theme could also be used to explore the particular affordances (or limitations) of various disciplinary approaches and their interdisciplinary intersections. How does the way we study affect what we know, and how does our inherited knowledge shape the way we study?\
Possible topics may include but are not limited to:

-   Indigenous knowledges
-   Cosmologies
-   The pluriverse
-   Ecocriticism/ecological knowledge bases
-   Subalternity
-   Disciplinary approaches and intersections
-   Embodied knowledge
-   Neurodiversity
-   Colonial and postcolonial relationships
-   Systems of faith and belief\
We invite abstracts of 200-250 words for individual paper presentations, fully-constructed panels (3-4 speakers), and poster presentations with some connection to our conference theme. Full-panel proposals will be given priority. Panel proposals must include a proposal for the panel in addition to abstracts for each individual participant. We expressly encourage undergraduates with an interest in graduate school to submit proposals for the conference, with panel positions, poster space, and networking/workshopping opportunities available for a select number of undergraduate participants. Travel grants will be awarded on a competitive basis for those traveling more than 50 miles. Further details will be included in your registration sign-up. 

Please submit abstracts at scholar.smu.edu/erah_conference---see the "Submit Proposal" button in the sidebar (you will need to make an account). We will notify participants of acceptance and next steps by September 30, 2024. If you have questions, feel free to contact us: ERAHconference@gmail.com. 

 <https://scholar.smu.edu/erah_conference/>

 [ERAHconference@gmail.com](mailto:ERAHconference@gmail.com?subject=Your%20posted%20CFP%20on%20cfplist)