---
title:  "Nicea and the Church of the Third Millennium Towards Catholic-Orthodx Unity"
excerpt: "The Council of Nicaea (325) is foundational for Orthodox-Catholic unity. The Council inaugurated a synodal way of addressing theological and canonical issues at the universal level. The Nicene Creed provided a theological vision of the triune God that continues to guide the common faith of Christians, in particular, of the Orthodox and Catholic Churches. The conference will focus on uniting and dividing theological and ecclesiological issues by discussing the legacy of the First Ecumenical Council."
image: "/assets/images/Nicaea-CFP-Banner-scaled-1366-1200x818.jpg"
tags:
  - theology 
  - Catholic 
  - Orhtodox 
paginate: true
---
*The Council of Nicaea (325) is foundational for Orthodox-Catholic unity. The Council inaugurated a synodal way of addressing theological and canonical issues at the universal level. The Nicene Creed provided a theological vision of the triune God that continues to guide the common faith of Christians, in particular, of the Orthodox and Catholic Churches. The conference will focus on uniting and dividing theological and ecclesiological issues by discussing the legacy of the First Ecumenical Council.*

## Confirmed Speakers Include

* Rev. Prof. Khaled Anatolios 
* Prof. Lewis Ayres 
* Prof. Mark DelCogliano 
* Prof. George Demacopoulos 
* Rev. Dr. Fr. Hyacinthe Destivelle 
* Prof. Paul Gavrilyuk 
* Rev. Prof. Cyril Hovorun 
* Dr. Andrej Jevtić 
* Prof. Dimitrios Keramidas 
* Prof. Young Kim 
* Cardinal Kurt Koch 
* Dr. Georgios Kordis 
* Prof. Matthew Levering 
* Bishop Kyrillos (Los Angeles) 
* Prof. David Luy 
* Prof. Bruce Marshall 
* Rev. Prof. Amphilochios Miltos 
* Prof. Irina Paert 
* Prof. Aristotle Papanikolaou 
* Ms. Katerina Pekridou 
* Metropolitan Job of Pisidia 
* Rev. Dr. Mark S. Smith 
* Prof. Richard Swinburne 
* Prof. Julija Naett Vidovic 
* Rev. Prof. Thomas Joseph White 
* Prof. Dr. Myriam Wijlens 
* Archbishop Rowan Williams 
* Prof. Gayle Woloschak

### [Click here for a PDF of the Nicaea Call for Papers](https://iota-web.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Nicaea-CFP-Poster-NOV-28.pdf)

## Proposals for papers are invited on the following topics:

1. the contemporary implications of confessing the Lordship and divinity of Jesus Christ as well as the mystery of God as Trinity;

2. the significance of the First Ecumenical Council for the understanding and practice of synodality and primacy;

3. the importance of the Council's dogmatic and canonical decisions for Orthodox-Catholic dialogue (especially for the bilateral discussions of ecclesiology, conciliar theory, and the date of Easter).

### Contributions relevant to the Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic traditions are encouraged.

*The proposals should be between 500 and 1000 words. All proposed papers must be substantially original and never have been published previously. Submit your proposal as an email attachment to Dr. Ana Petrache, Conference Coordinator at ****ana.petrache@pust.it.***

#### Deadline: March 1, 2024

Each contributor may deliver only one paper. The abstract will be judged on the basis of five criteria:

1. a clear and informative introduction to your topic;

2. the major points of your argument, and an overview of the evidence supporting your argument;

3. a convincing statement on the significance and originality of your work;

4. the conclusions you propose;

5. the fit of the paper with the themes of the conference.

### [Click here for a PDF of the Nicaea Call for Papers](https://iota-web.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Nicaea-CFP-Poster-NOV-28.pdf)

* * *

An International Conference co-organized by the **International Orthodox Theological Association** (IOTA) and the **Institute for the Ecumenical Studies** of the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum).