---
title: "#CFP: American Academy of Religion, Western Region 2026 Conference: Religion, Technology, and Innovation"
image: /assets/images/relcfp-cover.webp
tags:
 - religion
 - humanities
 - philosophy
 - technology
paginate: true 
---

CFP: American Academy of Religion, Western Region 2026 Conference: Religion, Technology, and Innovation
=======================================================================================================

### Call for Papers
- Date:  October 31, 2025
- Location: Nevada, United States
- American Academy of Religion, Western Region 2026 Conference: Religion, Technology, and Innovation.
- Proposals are due October 31, 2025: <https://www.aarwr.com/call-for-papers.html>
- Conference will take place March 13-15, 2026 at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Religion is often seen as a conservative force in the face of rapidly-developing technologies. Yet, as both scholars of religion and practitioners know, religious thought and practice are necessarily in dialogue with the world and can also serve as catalysts for transformation or reference points for negotiating the intersections of tradition and innovation. Religious texts and rituals have always served as sources of meaning that anchor and frame our relationships with technological progress. And the field of Religious Studies, in turn, inevitably intersects with the pressing issues of a given era -- shaped by, and at times shaping, the technological, economic, and social forces around us.

We invite proposals that expand conversations beyond established canons. We seek contributions that explore both historical and emerging forms of religiosity as they engage with societal innovation, including those that challenge conventional boundaries or arise from unexpected contexts. We encourage submissions that push the envelope of what academic presentations can look like, whether through performance, media, or other innovative forms.

We furthermore invite critical examination of the many intersections between religion and contemporary innovation. How have religious communities historically responded to technological and social change -- sometimes resisting, sometimes adapting, sometimes embracing? How do religious teachings grapple with challenges to traditional views of the human being (such as ground-breaking and increasingly pervasive forms of artificial intelligence), or with Marshall McLuhan's enduring insight that "the medium is the message"? In what ways can technology generate its own spiritualities, or offer alternatives to traditional religious practice? How are our understandings of community and individuality being reshaped by digital life, and what role might sabbath-like praxis, or other forms of counter-cultural religious expression, play in response? How is Religious Studies itself being transformed, and how might our discipline contribute to these inquiries inside and outside of the classroom?

We are especially interested in papers/presentations that address the ethical and social implications of these issues, including how they intersect with cultural and socioeconomic status, gender, sexuality, race, and differing ability. We welcome all perspectives, including those not yet represented in our ongoing conversation.

## Contact 
- Email: Katherine@katherinekunz.com
- URL: <https://www.aarwr.com/call-for-papers.html>