---
title: "#CFP: "
image: /assets/images/relcfp-cover.webp
tags:
 - religion
 - humanities
 - philosophy
paginate: true 
canonical_url: https://popularcultureandtheology.com/2025/05/19/extended-call-for-papers-c-s-lewis-and-popular-culture/
---
**Volume Editor:** George Tsakiridis, PhD

**Abstract and CV Due:** June 10, 2025

**Initial Final Paper Due:** September 15, 2025

C.S. Lewis has captured the imagination of twentieth-century readers by presenting a resonating, approachable Christianity that speaks to the modern age. His work has been influential for both children and adults in a range of genres from *The Chronicles of Narnia* to *Mere Christianity*. The work of Lewis has imbued the modern world with an accessible form of Christianity that remains thoughtful. Because of his reach and popularity, he is a perfect subject for the Theology, Religion, and Pop Culture series.

The volume seeks to study Lewis and popular culture in predominately three ways. First, authors can engage the ways in which his works have been portrayed on screen (and otherwise), so chapters on the films and television incarnations will be welcome. This might include the books themselves, depending on the creativity of the proposal. Second, I welcome chapters on Lewis' influence in broader culture, but specifically Christian culture. Lewis has become something of a Protestant saint, especially in evangelical circles, and I invite chapters that engage his influence and status in the church and otherwise. Third, I welcome chapters that interact with Lewis' thought as it has been portrayed in broader popular culture, specifically film, television, and music. I think this is where some of the most creative work can be done, as it appropriates and incorporates Lewis' thought in a wide range of contexts that will present original scholarship. An example of this type of essay would be the chapter by Cherish Nelson that was published in the volume, *Theology and Breaking Bad*, "The Inevitable Man: Todd Alquist as a Fulfillment of C.S. Lewis's *The Abolition of Man*."

Because Lewis' writings have had such influence and been adopted by many creators, both directly and indirectly, I do want to leave some level of openness for potential authors to be creative in their proposals. Do feel free to push the boundaries and put your stamp on the topic. Lewis' work has been studied and dissected in many ways and places. This volume is a chance to push beyond that.

**Potential topics might include:**

-Themes in individual films on The Chronicles of Narnia

-C.S. Lewis' works and ideas as applied through popular culture in film and other mediums

-The Space Trilogy in Popular Culture

-C.S. Lewis' effect on broader culture in the 1940s and beyond

--*The Screwtape Letters*,* Mere Christianity*,* The Great Divorce*, *The Four Loves*, etc. and how these spirituality texts have shaped popular culture in the evangelical Christian world (and beyond)

-C.S. Lewis, the man, and his influence on popular culture, both individually and as a member of The Inklings

-Cultural effects on Lewis' writings and how that cultural ethos has influenced his acceptance in popular culture (for example World War II, the Cold War, and the effect of modernity)

This list is just to get you thinking. Get creative!

Abstracts should be approximately 300-500 words and should present a basic outline of your potential contribution to the volume and potential methodology. If you make the initial cut, you will be contacted by Dr. Tsakiridis to discuss and finalize your contribution to the volume. Send an abstract and a CV to cslewisandpopularculture@gmail.com. Final drafts will be approximately 6,000 to 8,000 words, but exact word counts for each article will be discussed at the time of acceptance. You are welcome to contact Dr. Tsakiridis in advance of the proposal deadline to float a potential topic if you are unsure. Early submissions are strongly encouraged.

Proposed publication schedule looks like this:

June 10, 2025 -- Call for Papers Ends

September 15, 2025 -- First Drafts Due

October 15, 2025 -- Drafts Reviewed and Returned

November 15, 2025 -- Final Drafts Due

December 30, 2026 -- Final Edits Made Before Peer Review

January 15, 2026 -- Drafts to Peer Review

May 30, 2026 -- Drafts Return from Peer Review (Ideally)

June 30, 2026 -- Final Revisions Due

July 30, 2026 -- Submission to Publisher

November/December 2026 -- Publication

This schedule should allow the volume to come out in late 2026 around the same time that the new Chronicles of Narnia films by Greta Gerwig are released.

**George Tsakiridis** holds a PhD in theology from the Lutheran School of Theology and is a Senior Lecturer of Philosophy and Religion as well as the Research, Creative Activity Fellow for the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at South Dakota State University. He is the editor of Theology and Spider-Man (Lexington/Fortress, 2021), co-editor of Theology and Breaking Bad, and a contributor to [www.popularcultureandtheology.com](http://www.popularcultureandtheology.com/) (check out his essays on Fleabag, Suits, and Spider-Man!). He looks forward to your creative proposals!