---
title: "#CFP: From Blueprints to Praxis"
description: "Call for papers for the Fall 2026 Journal of Auto-Academia issue on practical disruption, praxis, activism, and expansive forms of knowledge production."
date: 2026-07-09
image: /assets/images/relcfp-cover.webp
tags:
 - auto-academia
 - praxis
 - academia
 - activism
 - humanities
---
## Details
- Deadline: August 1st, 2026, 11:59pm 
- How to Submit: Email <joaa@iliff.edu> with subject heading “Submission for JOAA Fall2026” 
- Citations: Use either MLA, APA, or Chicago style consistently throughout your document 
- Manuscript Length: No page or word limits/minimums 
- Disclaimer: Submissions that do not align with JOAA’s mission/values are subject to rejection 
 
## Call for Papers Fall 2026 of the Journal of Auto-Academia 
 
### CFP: From Blueprints to Praxis: Practical Disruption in Academia and Beyond 
 
Often, when thinking of academia, the ideas of books, writing, and theory are what make up the 
idea of the scholar. Many scholars who speak about activism, liberation, mutual aid, living in a 
collective community, and many other topics of concern for the JOAA team, do not always live 
the practice they write. This year, we are hoping to disrupt this focus on the blueprints of 
freedom and look into the way folks are working in the world to build, support, create, and live 
praxis in their lives. 
 
We live in a time when our knowledge, creativity, and agency are under constant attack; 
disruption is not optional; it is necessary. At JOAA, we encourage writers and artists to challenge 
the rigid, canonized structures that have long defined scholarly legitimacy, structures that too 
often restrict creativity, police expression, and reproduce exclusion behind the facade of 
intellectual order. Here, our blueprint is not a fixed design or a narrow set of rules to be 
followed, but a site of critical (re)imagination where established boundaries are questioned, 
unsettled, and transformed. We move beyond inherited academic limitations by creating space 
for more expansive, creative, and disruptive forms of knowledge production that refuse to be 
limited within traditional frameworks. In a way, the blueprint becomes a radical practice of 
writing, thinking, and building in this moment, which requires intellectual courage. 
 
This year, for the Journal of Auto-Academia, we will be asking for submissions on the idea of 
praxis and what it means to move from the blueprints and theories that ground us in the world 
and put our various theories into practice. We hope to elicit submissions from scholars, scholar-
activists, activists, and maybe people who don’t identify with any of these words but who are 
thinking about action. We hope to see submissions about how you build, sustain, and love your 
communities. 
 
Our deadline for submissions for this issue is August 1st, 2026, 11:59 pm. Please email 
joaa@iliff.edu with the subject heading “Submission for JOAA Fall2026”. We do not 
standardize citation styles within the journal but ask that when you cite someone you use either 
MLA, APA, or Chicago style consistently throughout your document. Notification of acceptance 
will be on September 15th. 
 
 
[view the full call as a pdf](/assets/pdfs/CFP_JOAA_Fall_2026.pdf)